NTREGOPT
========

Registry Optimization for Windows NT/2000/2003/XP

v1.1j, 10/20/2005, Freeware
Written by Lars Hederer
e-mail: lars.hederer@t-online.de

Look for the latest version here:
http://www.larshederer.homepage.t-online.de/erunt

To find out what's new in this version, please see the "Version
history" section later in this file.



Introduction
------------

Similar to Windows 9x/Me, the registry files in an NT-based system
can become fragmented over time, occupying more space on your hard
disk than necessary and decreasing overall performance. You should
use the NTREGOPT utility regularly, but especially after installing
or uninstalling a program, to minimize the size of the registry files
and optimize registry access.

The program works by recreating each registry hive "from scratch",
thus removing any slack space that may be left from previously
modified or deleted keys.

Note that the program does NOT change the contents of the registry in
any way, nor does it physically defrag the registry files on the drive
(as the PageDefrag program from SysInternals does). The optimization
done by NTREGOPT is simply compacting the registry hives to the
minimum size possible.



Supported operating systems
---------------------------

- Windows NT 3.51
- Windows NT 4.0
- Windows 2000
- Windows 2003
- Windows XP
- most likely, all future Windows versions based on the NT kernel



Installation
------------

Use the Setup program to install NTREGOPT on your computer.

Or, if you downloaded the zipped version: Unzip all files into a
folder of your choice, and if you want, create a shortcut on your
desktop to the NTREGOPT.EXE file.



Uninstallation
--------------

Use "Add/Remove Programs" in Windows' control panel to remove NTREGOPT
from your computer.

Or, if you downloaded the zipped version: Delete the NTREGOPT folder,
delete the appropriate desktop icon.



Optimizing the registry with NTREGOPT
-------------------------------------

Note: To ensure proper operation of NTREGOPT, you should be logged in
as a system administrator.

To optimize your registry, simply run NTREGOPT, click "OK", and when
the process is complete click "OK" to reboot the computer. You should
do so immediately because any changes made to the registry after
NTREGOPT has been run are lost after the reboot.

Note that depending on your system configuration the optimization
process may take some time, and that the first bar is NOT a progress
bar, just an indicator that the program is still running.



NTREGOPT command line switches
------------------------------

NTREGOPT supports command line switches with which you can perform a
"silent" registry optimization, without user interaction.
The syntax for the NTREGOPT command line is:

NTREGOPT silent [/noprogresswindow] [/reboot]

(Switches in brackets are optional.)

Description of the command line switches:

silent
  Puts NTREGOPT into "silent" mode and enables the other switches.

/noprogresswindow
  Hides the progress window during optimization.

/reboot
  Automatically reboots the computer when optimization of the registry
  is complete.



Known problems
--------------

NTREGOPT sometimes fails with error 1450 - "Insufficient system
resources exist to complete the requested service" - when trying to
save an optimized registry hive. I have not yet been able to reproduce
this error on any PC, and reports from affected users indicate that it
also pops up when trying to back up the critical hive using
Microsoft's REGBACK program. This makes it unlikely that there is
anything I can do on my (the programmer's) side. Some users reported
however that they were able to work around the problem by running
NTREGOPT in Windows' safe mode, and in one case uninstalling a
Symantec software suite solved it permanently. One user reported that
increasing the "IRPStackSize" value as described in Microsoft
Knowledge Base article 177078 fixed the problem on his system.

When the system is rebooted after an optimization with NTREGOPT,
Windows Server 2003 will by default display the shutdown event tracker
during logon asking why the system has been shut down unexpectedly.
This is because the info that the shutdown was in fact an expected one
is written to the "old" registry during shutdown of the system which
is replaced by the optimized registry next time the system is booted,
and therefore the shutdown info is discarded and shutdown event
tracker thinks the system crashed. You may want to disable the tracker
to avoid this message in the future (see the Windows help for
information on how to do this).

If you experience any other problems, please email me at
lars.hederer@t-online.de with a detailed description and I will see if
I can help you.



Localization
------------

You can translate this program into your language by editing the
NTREGOPT.LOC file.

Keep in mind that the file should be edited using a Windows based
editor (Notepad), to ensure that any OEM characters are displayed
correctly in the program.

If your language is not yet present on my homepage and you want your
localization to be available to the general public, you are welcome to
send your translated file to me. I will then make it available for
download, with credits of course.

I have included a German language file. If you want to use the program
in German, simply unzip LOC_GER.ZIP into your NTREGOPT folder.



Version history
---------------

v1.1j, 10/20/2005
- Fixed compatibility issues with 64-bit Windows (many thanks to
  Ian Smith and Hajo for all testing)
- Enhanced error messages

v1.1i, 08/17/2005
- Optimization results are now calculated correctly when optimization
  failed on one or more hives

v1.1h, 03/06/2005
- Updated homepage address

v1.1f, 08/26/2004
- Window position is now screen center instead of desktop center,
  fixing display problem when using multiple monitors (thanks John :)

v1.1e, 07/31/2004
- Optimization results: use thousand separator

v1.1d, 07/07/2004
- Optimized error handling

v1.1c, 05/10/2004
- Fixed problems with dynamic disks
- Re-added support for Windows NT 3.51 (got lost with v1.1)

v1.1b, 04/23/2004
- NTREGOPT is now compatible with Windows Server 2003 and Windows XP
  Service Pack 2
- Fixed a problem where the registry hives could not be optimized on
  some systems

v1.1a, 10/03/2002
- Fixed a problem where the registry hives could not be optimized on
  some systems

v1.1, 09/25/2002
- Added command line support
- Show optimization results (initial and new registry size)

v1.0, 11/24/2001
- Initial release



Distribution
------------

The NTREGOPT program is freeware. Please pass it to anyone who you
think may find it useful.

I explicitly allow this program to be included in any file archive,
CD-ROM or other media collection as well as usage in your own programs
provided that all files are kept and remain unchanged. A quick note
via e-mail where my program has been included is appreciated.



Donations
---------

Though I chose to make my programs freeware so that no one is required
to pay for using them, I accept and appreciate donations. So, if you
find my programs helpful and want to support further development,
simply visit my homepage and click one of the "PayPal" buttons, or
donate directly to my e-mail address via PayPal. Thanks in advance!

If you live in Germany and want to make a donation, you may also
transfer money directly to my bank account. Contact me for more
information.



Disclaimer
----------

Use this software at your own risk. I do not take responsibility for
anything that might happen to you or the PC upon use of my program,
including but not limited to: registry destruction, hard disk crash,
heart attack...

Comments and suggestions via e-mail, however, are always welcome!
