ICLRead.wcx
v.1.2 (see changes in Changes.txt)

Bad English.

Archive plugin for Total Commander.
Donationware.

Allow work with icl files (icon lib's) as archive files.
Supports extract/add/delete icons from/in icl files and creating new icl from icons.

 Before using plugin CAREFULLY read notes below.

1. Originally icl is 16 bit dll with icons only.  Plugin load data from icl files to memory.
2. If you rename 16 or 32 bits dll, exe, ocx to icl plugin OPEN IT'S AS ICL!
   Be careful with this files - deleting/adding icons to it rewrite this to 16 bit dll(icl) with icons!
3. Begin from version 1.2 icon "file" in the library are always displayed in the order of following and have a format "0000_IconDescription.ico" (150 symbols max).
   Symbols \/:*?"<>| will be changed to underscore symbol (_). For rename extracted icons use Multi Rename Tool (Ctrl+M) (see below how).
   Date - current, time - an amount subicons (for Multi Icons).
3.1. Are not supported files without icons - such not will openned. All icons from the library cannot be delete.
3.2. At the adding an icons in the library they are always ADDED (are not rewritten), filename using as a description.
     Much often in icl files an order of following an icons very important - wake careful at the adding/removing.
3.3. At adding on F6 source files are NOT DELETED.
4. Add 32768 icons will fault, author recommends using plugin only for extraction an icons and creation small libraries.


 Install plugin.

1. Unzip the WCX to the your plugin directory (usually c:\wincmd)
2. In Total Commander, choose Configuration - Options
3. Open the 'Packer' page
4. Click 'Configure packer extension WCXs
5. type  icl  as the extension, or any other unused extension
6. Click 'new type', and select the ICLRead.wcx
7. Click OK


 Renaming extracted icons.

Icons extracted from the lib's with format "0000_IconDescription.ico" (150 symbols max). с именами в формате "0000_IconDescription.ico" (максимум 150 символов).
For rename extracted icons use Multi Rename Tool (Ctrl+M).
For rename icons to old format "0000.ico" - use mask [N1-4].
For rename icons to his descriptions from lib "IconDescription.ico" - use mask [N6-] (be careful - names can duplicate!).


-----
ICLRead plugin is provided "as-is". 
No warranty of any kind is expressed or implied. 
For any commercial use registration needed.


Contact with autor: progman13@mail.ru